Types of users in linux:

root user account:
This is the main user account in Linux system. It is automatically created during the installation. It has the highest privilege in system. 
It can do any administrative work and can access any service. This account is intended for system administration and should be used only for 
this purpose. It should not be used for routine activities. It can’t be deleted. But if require, it can be disabled.

normal user account:
This is the normal user account. During the installation, one regular user account is created automatically. After the installation, we can 
create as many regular user accounts as we need. This account has moderate privilege. This account is intended for routine works. 
It can perform only the tasks for which it is allowed and can access only those files and services for which it is authorized. As per requirement,
it can be disabled or deleted.


service account (or) system user account:
Service accounts are created by installation packages when they are installed. These accounts are used by services to run processes and execute functions.
These accounts are neither intended nor should be used for routine work



Linux Commands

Create a file :

it can be done in different ways.


touch file1 (empty file can be created by using touch command)


cat > file1 (file with some contents can be created by cat command)


cat file1 (contents of the file can be displayed by using the following command)


rm file1 (file can be removed by a command called rm)


Create a directory :

mkdir dir1 (to create a directory)

rmdir dir1 (to delete an empty directory)

rm -r dir1 (to remove a directory with contents)

cd .. (Go to previous directory)

pwd  (path of present working directory)

How to create 4 directories ( d1 -- d2 --- d3 --- d4 )
and navigate on those directories.

mkdir d1
cd d1
mkdir d2
cd d2
mkdir d3
cd d3
mkdir d4
cd d4


list and Long list
ls ( to list all files and directories)
ls -a (to display all hidden files and normal files)
ls -l (long list of files and directories with detailed information)
ls -la (to see all hidden files and directories along with normal files)
ls -lt (long list of files with time stamps)
ls -ltr(long list of files with time stamps in reverse order)


What if file name starts with .
touch .file1 (to create a hidden file)
mkdir .dir1 (to create a hidden directory)

How to copy a file
cp sourcefilename destinationfilename
cp home/vamsi/file1  home/rajesh




















